README.md, before:

# [WIP] go-data-platform

This is a work in progress project. After finished, it will contain the following:

- Ingestor: A kafka worker that consumes from a topic, validates its data and persist it in a database;
- Retriever: A HTTP API that receives a GET request, applies the filter in the query parameter, access the database and returns the data in JSON.

## Running a Kafka broker

Run a Kafka broker on localhost:9092 using docker. The one present in this repo was taken from [Confluent Platform's Kafka](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/platform-quickstart.html).

```bash
docker compose up -d kafka-broker
```

## Producing input data

Enter Kafka broker's container:

```bash
docker exec -it kafka-broker bash
```

Create a new topic called **input data**:

```bash
kafka-topics --create --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --replication-factor 1 --partitions 1 --topic input-data
```

You can check if the topic was created using the command:

```bash
kafka-topics --list --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
```

In **resources/input-data.txt** in this repo, each line contains a different input. To produce an input event, create a *console producer*, copy and paste one line in the console:

```bash
kafka-console-producer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic input-data
```

You can check if the event was produced creating a console consumer:

```bash
kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic input-data --from-beginning
```

## Set up the database

Running the database:

```bash
docker compose up -d db
```

Running a client for us to connect to the database:

```bash
docker run -it --network go-data-platform-network --rm --name mysql-client mysql:8.0 mysql -hmysql -uroot -p
```

In the container's terminal, we type the password atributed to the value *MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD* in our *.env* file, which is *admin*.

In another terminal, we will copy the file *create-table.sql* to our database container:

```shell
docker cp ./resources/create-table.sql mysql-client:/create-table.sql
```

In mysql-client's container terminal, we execute the following commands to 1. create the database 2. use it 3. execute the SQL commands from the copyied file:

```sql
create database go_data_platform;
use go_data_platform;
source /create-table.sql;
```

## Running Ingestor

To run the docker image, the key "bootstrap.servers" on kafka.ConfigMap must have the value "broker:29092" if you are running [Confluent Platform's Kafka](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/platform-quickstart.html); more on **KAFKA_LISTENERS** AND **KAFKA__ADVERTISED_LISTENERS** [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61990336/kafka-consumer-failed-to-start-connection-refused-connect2-for-127-0-0-1) and [here](https://rmoff.net/2018/08/02/kafka-listeners-explained/):

```bash
docker compose up ingestor
```

Commit message:

Creates a demo service to persist data in database
- Creates a simple service to test database insertion;
- Creates a MySQL gateway and adapter;
- Alters the table structure to use 'data_id' as primary key and remove its 'id';
- Changes 'input-data.txt' to place the second message at the end with a comment: it should only be used after the update command is implemented.

README.md, after:

# [WIP] go-data-platform

This is a work in progress project. After finished, it will contain the following:

- Ingestor: A kafka worker that consumes from a topic, validates its data and persist it in a database;
- Retriever: A HTTP API that receives a GET request, applies the filter in the query parameter, access the database and returns the data in JSON.

## Running a Kafka broker

Run a Kafka broker on localhost:9092 using docker. The one present in this repo was taken from [Confluent Platform's Kafka](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/platform-quickstart.html).

```bash
docker compose up -d kafka-broker
```

## Producing input data

Enter Kafka broker's container:

```bash
docker exec -it kafka-broker bash
```

Create a new topic called **input data**:

```bash
kafka-topics --create --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --replication-factor 1 --partitions 1 --topic input-data
```

You can check if the topic was created using the command:

```bash
kafka-topics --list --bootstrap-server localhost:9092
```

In **resources/input-data.txt** in this repo, each line contains a different input. To produce an input event, create a *console producer*, copy and paste one line in the console:

```bash
kafka-console-producer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic input-data
```

You can check if the event was produced creating a console consumer:

```bash
kafka-console-consumer --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --topic input-data --from-beginning
```

## Set up the database

Running the database:

```bash
docker compose up -d db
```

Running a client for us to connect to the database:

```bash
docker run -it --network go-data-platform-network --rm --name mysql-client mysql:8.0 mysql -hmysql -uroot -p
```

In the container's terminal, we type the password atributed to the value *MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD* in our *.env* file, which is *admin*.

In another terminal, we will copy the file *create-table.sql* to our database container:

```shell
docker cp ./resources/create-table.sql mysql-client:/create-table.sql
```

In mysql-client's container terminal, we execute the following commands to 1. create the database 2. use it 3. execute the SQL commands from the copyied file:

```sql
create database go_data_platform;
use go_data_platform;
source /create-table.sql;
```

Before runnning ingestor, we must change the **Addr** value in **resources.go > MustNewMySQLAdapter() > cfg**. In order for us to find its correct value, we can inspect it using the command *docker inspect*:

```shell
docker inspect mysql | grep IPAddress
```

If our container's IP Adress is, for instance, *172.28.0.2*, we change the value on **Addr** to:

```go
Addr: "172.28.0.2:3306",
```

## Running Ingestor

To run the docker image, the key "bootstrap.servers" on kafka.ConfigMap must have the value "broker:29092" if you are running [Confluent Platform's Kafka](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/platform-quickstart.html); more on **KAFKA_LISTENERS** AND **KAFKA__ADVERTISED_LISTENERS** [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/61990336/kafka-consumer-failed-to-start-connection-refused-connect2-for-127-0-0-1) and [here](https://rmoff.net/2018/08/02/kafka-listeners-explained/):

```bash
docker compose up ingestor
```
